Smart Quotes and Typography Example

Here's a sample text with various "smart quotes" and 'curly apostrophes'
that demonstrate the LLM Output Scrub's capabilities. You'll notice the
difference between "straight quotes" and "curly quotes" throughout this
document.

The company's mission statement reads: "We strive for excellence in
everything we do." However, some critics say it's "just marketing speak."
The CEO responded: "We're committed to our values."

Mathematical expressions often use special symbols: 2 × 3 = 6, 10 ÷ 2 = 5,
and 5 ± 2 could be either 3 or 7. When comparing values, we use ≤ (less
than or equal to) and ≥ (greater than or equal to). The temperature today
is 25°C, which is approximately 77°F.

Fractions are commonly written as ¼, ½, and ¾, though some prefer decimal
notation. The square root of 16 is √16 = 4, and 5² = 25 while 2³ = 8.

Currency symbols appear frequently: €50 for European purchases, £30 for
British goods, ¥1000 for Japanese items, and ¢25 for small amounts. The
company's revenue was $1,000,000 last year.

Legal documents often contain trademark symbols: The product name™ is
registered®, and the content is protected by copyright©. Section 1¶ of the
agreement states that all parties must comply with the terms.

Special punctuation marks include the em dash—which creates emphasis—and
the en dash (–) for ranges like 2010–2020. Ellipsis… indicates omitted
text, while bullet points • help organize information.

Angle brackets are used for citations: ‹See reference› and «Important
note». The mathematical symbol ≠ means "not equal to," and ≈ indicates
"approximately equal to."

The infinity symbol ∞ represents unlimited possibilities, while ± shows
plus or minus values. The dagger † and double dagger ‡ are used for
footnotes in academic texts.

Per mille (‰) and permyriad (‱) symbols are used in statistics and finance
to represent parts per thousand and parts per ten thousand respectively.

This text demonstrates how the LLM Output Scrub will convert all these
smart characters to their plain ASCII equivalents, making the text more
compatible with various systems and applications.